Docs/VMSetup.md, before:

## Setting up Virtual Machine for Xeneva

## Notice

Xeneva is well tested only on VMware Workstation and Virtual Box with vmdk file that maps PhysicalDisk (_The USB Flash drive containing all required binaries_). Refer to [Setting up USB Flash Drive](BuildInstructions.md) for more information. Every thing should be set up as mentioned in this document. ***You can skip to [Virtual Machine Creation](#creating-the-virtual-machine-in-virtual-box) if you have downloaded the release vhd file***.

## Creating the .vmdk file 

In Virtual Box's VMs we will use .vmdk file in AHCI Controllers Port 1. To Create vmdk we will use Virtual Box __VBoxManage.exe__ tool present in location ```C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox```. You can add this location to Windows Environment Variable __PATH__ for accessing the tool from any location inside your local Machine.<br>
- Check for Drive Number of USB Flash Drive using ```diskmgmt.msc```. On Linux or macOS, you can use ```lsblk``` or ```diskutil list``` respectively <br>
- Start ```cmd.exe``` in _Run as administrator_ mode <br>
- Type ```VBoxManage createmedium -filename "Your\path\to\filename.vmdk" --variant RawDisk --format=VMDK --property RawDrive=\\.\PhysicalDriveX```<br>
Repace ```X``` with your drive number of USB Flash drive
- Example here:
```VBoxManage createmedium -filename "E:\usb.vmdk" --variant RawDisk --format=VMDK --property RawDrive=\\.\PhysicalDrive1```. Here PhysicalDrive1 is my USB Flash Drive<br>
- Upto here you should be able to create __.vmdk__ file mapped to Physical Drive 

## Creating the Virtual Machine in Virtual Box
- Create a new Virtual Machine in Virtual Box. ```{Machine - New}```
- Give a suitable name to the VM and select ```Linux``` from Type and ```Ubuntu (64-bit)``` from Version and click __Next__
- Set Base Memory to __2048 MB__ and _Processor Count to 3_ and check the _Enable EFI(special OSses only)_ and click Next
- Select __Do Not Add a Virtual Hard Disk__ option and Click Next
- Click __Finish__ to complete the process.
- Upto here the new Virtual Machine should appear inside Virtual Box. 
- Now Open Settings of newly created Virtual Machine
- Go to System and select __ICH9__ from the _Chipset_ , __USB Tablet__ from the _Pointing Device_ and __Enable I/O APIC__ from _Extended Features_
- Go to Storage and _Add a controller_ of __AHCI(SATA)__. This should create a new controller in the _Storage Device_ list.
- Now _Add a Hard disk_ inside newly created Controller then click _Add_ button from Hard Disk Selector window and select the __vmdk__ that is created using the steps mentioned above, or directly the downloaded __vhd__ file, if you have downloaded Xeneva from official release page.

- Go to _Audio_ and Windows Direct Sound in Host Audio Driver and Intel HD Audio from Audio Controller and check _Enable Audio Output_ and _Enable Audio Input_
- Go to USB and select _Enable USB Controller_ and select _USB 3.0 (XHCI) Controller_
- Upto here XenevaOS is ready to run

## Using Xeneva Terminal (_only for v1.0_)
When the OS boots up it automatically starts the Window Manager and launches Xeneva Terminal application. Desktop should be started manually. Follow the steps to start the desktop
- Type ```xelnch``` and press _Enter_, this starts the _AppTray_ process
- Send a signal ```CTRL+C``` to the terminal. 
- Type ```nmdapha``` and press _Enter_, to start the Namdapha Desktop bar
- Now you should able open the _AppTray_ by clicking the Xeneva Logo in the Namdapha Bar 
- Now launch applications from the _AppTray_

## Starting _play_ application to play audio
XenevaOS has builtin play application which can play audio files of 48kHZ - 16bit format .wav files
- In Xeneva Terminal type ```play -file /music/folk.wav``` this will play the Xeneva default music file present in the music folder
- You can send signal to the Terminal to bring back the shell input

## Conclusion
Currently components of Xeneva should be started separately, automatic starting of components is not supported.You can attach a serial terminal to print Xeneva's internal messages which helps debugging the system on various crashes. See [How to setup a serial Terminal for Xeneva](SerialTerminalAttach.md) for more information

Commit message:

Update VMSetup doc with steps to disable VBS on Windows Deodhai update: implement capability to change arrow cursor to resize cursor on detecting mouse movement to edge of windows

Docs/VMSetup.md, after:

## Setting up Virtual Machine for Xeneva

## Notice

Xeneva is well tested only on VMware Workstation and Virtual Box with vmdk file that maps PhysicalDisk (_The USB Flash drive containing all required binaries_). Refer to [Setting up USB Flash Drive](BuildInstructions.md) for more information. Every thing should be set up as mentioned in this document. ***You can skip to [Virtual Machine Creation](#creating-the-virtual-machine-in-virtual-box) if you have downloaded the release vhd file***.

## Creating the .vmdk file 

In Virtual Box's VMs we will use .vmdk file in AHCI Controllers Port 1. To Create vmdk we will use Virtual Box __VBoxManage.exe__ tool present in location ```C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox```. You can add this location to Windows Environment Variable __PATH__ for accessing the tool from any location inside your local Machine.<br>
- Check for Drive Number of USB Flash Drive using ```diskmgmt.msc```. On Linux or macOS, you can use ```lsblk``` or ```diskutil list``` respectively <br>
- Start ```cmd.exe``` in _Run as administrator_ mode <br>
- Type ```VBoxManage createmedium -filename "Your\path\to\filename.vmdk" --variant RawDisk --format=VMDK --property RawDrive=\\.\PhysicalDriveX```<br>
Repace ```X``` with your drive number of USB Flash drive
- Example here:
```VBoxManage createmedium -filename "E:\usb.vmdk" --variant RawDisk --format=VMDK --property RawDrive=\\.\PhysicalDrive1```. Here PhysicalDrive1 is my USB Flash Drive<br>
- Upto here you should be able to create __.vmdk__ file mapped to Physical Drive 

## Disabling VBS(Virtualization Based Security) on Windows (_~Important_)
Before running XenevaOS on Windows Machine, we need to temporarily disable VBS feature of Windows. Xeneva fails to access virtualized hardware memory regions on VBS enabled Windows machine for which the OS cannot continue the boot process. VBS completely occupies all hardware resource to create an isolated region of memory. To turn off VBS, please follow the steps 

### - Turn off Memory integrity :
- Open _**Windows Security**_
- Go to _**Device Security**_ : In the left panel of _**Windows Security**_, click _**Device Security**_
- Open _**Core Isolation**_ details : _Under _**Core Isolation**_, click _**Core Isolation**_ details_
- Turn off _**Memory Integrity**_ : _Toggle _**Memory Integrity**_ to Off_.
- We're done, now _Restart_ the PC (_~~We can also restart all together after we turn off hypervisorlaunchtype_).

### - Turn off _hypervisorlaunchtype_
- Open _**Command Prompt**_ as Administrator
- Type ` bcdedit /set hypervisorlaunchtype off ` and press _Enter_
- We're done, now _Restart_ the PC.


## Creating the Virtual Machine in Virtual Box
- Create a new Virtual Machine in Virtual Box. ```{Machine - New}```
- Give a suitable name to the VM and select ```Linux``` from Type and ```Ubuntu (64-bit)``` from Version and click __Next__
- Set Base Memory to __2048 MB__ and _Processor Count to 3_ and check the _Enable EFI(special OSses only)_ and click Next
- Select __Do Not Add a Virtual Hard Disk__ option and Click Next
- Click __Finish__ to complete the process.
- Upto here the new Virtual Machine should appear inside Virtual Box. 
- Now Open Settings of newly created Virtual Machine
- Go to System and select __ICH9__ from the _Chipset_ , __USB Tablet__ from the _Pointing Device_ and __Enable I/O APIC__ from _Extended Features_
- Go to Storage and _Add a controller_ of __AHCI(SATA)__. This should create a new controller in the _Storage Device_ list.
- Now _Add a Hard disk_ inside newly created Controller then click _Add_ button from Hard Disk Selector window and select the __vmdk__ that is created using the steps mentioned above, or directly the downloaded __vhd__ file, if you have downloaded Xeneva from official release page.

- Go to _Audio_ and Windows Direct Sound in Host Audio Driver and Intel HD Audio from Audio Controller and check _Enable Audio Output_ and _Enable Audio Input_
- Go to USB and select _Enable USB Controller_ and select _USB 3.0 (XHCI) Controller_
- Upto here XenevaOS is ready to run

## Using Xeneva Terminal (_only for v1.0_)
When the OS boots up it automatically starts the Window Manager and launches Xeneva Terminal application. Desktop should be started manually. Follow the steps to start the desktop
- Type ```xelnch``` and press _Enter_, this starts the _AppTray_ process
- Send a signal ```CTRL+C``` to the terminal. 
- Type ```nmdapha``` and press _Enter_, to start the Namdapha Desktop bar
- Now you should able open the _AppTray_ by clicking the Xeneva Logo in the Namdapha Bar 
- Now launch applications from the _AppTray_

## Starting _play_ application to play audio
XenevaOS has builtin play application which can play audio files of 48kHZ - 16bit format .wav files
- In Xeneva Terminal type ```play -file /music/folk.wav``` this will play the Xeneva default music file present in the music folder
- You can send signal to the Terminal to bring back the shell input

## Conclusion
Currently components of Xeneva should be started separately, automatic starting of components is not supported.You can attach a serial terminal to print Xeneva's internal messages which helps debugging the system on various crashes. See [How to setup a serial Terminal for Xeneva](SerialTerminalAttach.md) for more information
